Good morning, everyone.
Welcome to another great day of WWDC.
And thanks for spending your
morning with the books team.
My name's Casey.
I'm the engineering manager
for the iBooksstore.
And one of my jobs is to develop
technology that will enable
you to create books that people
are going to just love to read.
So to help you with that,
today my colleagues and I are going
to teach you how to create interactive
books using EPUB 3 and JavaScript.
Before we jump into the technology
behind EPUB and JavaScript though,
I'm going to run through real quickly
where we've been since last year.
So first,
I'll recap last year's iBook session,
and then I'm going to explain to you and
really share with you some of the cool
new things we've added since last year.
So, at last year's iBook session,
we showed you how to use EPUB 2 to
create two different formats of books,
flowing and fixed layout.
And as a reminder,
a flowing book is a book where
the reader can resize the text.
And in fact, the text in that document
is one long document,
kind of like a web page,
that iBooks then neatly
divides into individual pages.
In contrast to that,
a fixed layout book is used when
you want a very precise design.
It has full-bleed images and
text that overlaps those images.
For both of these formats,
you can embed audio and video
using the HTML5 elements.
And all of this was covered
in last year's session.
In addition to that,
really my favorite moment from
last year was when I got to
introduce to you Read Aloud.
Read Aloud is a technology that
allows you to sync a narrator's
voice with the text of your book
so that individual words light
up as that audio is read aloud.
Now,
if you missed last year's iBooks session,
don't worry.
It is available for download
on the Apple Developer Center.
And if you're new to EPUB,
you can pick this technology
up really quickly.
And if you need more of a foundation,
definitely download last year's session.
So since I last talked to you,
since last year,
iBooks has been really busy.
We are the first reading
system to support EPUB 3.
And EPUB 3 support in itself,
let me tell you, it made for a busy year.
But Apple didn't stop there.
In January of this year,
Apple released iBooks Author.
iBooks Author is a free app available
from the Mac App Store that makes
it easy for anybody to make a book.
It combines the simplicity of
copy and paste and drag and drop,
along with some really creative
layout tools that makes it quick
and easy to make some really
beautiful books for the iPad.
So this year,
iBooks brings you EPUB 3 and iBooks
Author to give you some really
great development tools for getting
your books into the iBooks store.
And I mean you in particular.
So Apple developers,
you are a unique group.
You have a more technological
background than just the average Joe.
And that puts you in an especially
advantageous position for creating
some really beautiful books.
So yesterday, my colleague Charles demoed
iBooks Author.
Today,
some more colleagues and I are going
to show you how to put your technical
skills to use to create some interactive,
engaging books using EPUB 3.
And so you have options.
When do you want to make an EPUB?
Well, iBooks is actually a really
incredible platform for EPUB,
and that's because we support
flowing and fixed layout,
media like images, audio, and video.
You can include your own fonts,
and you can make an interactive book,
which we'll show you today.
You can also create a read aloud book
to sync that audio with the text.
And your single EPUB is
supported on the iPad,
the iPhone, and the iPod Touch.
So that's millions of devices
that are out there that are
ready to read your book.
Also, EPUB uses standard technologies
like HTML and CSS and JavaScript.
So if you already have these skills,
you are more than halfway
there to making a book.
And finally, EPUB is open standard,
just like HTML and CSS,
which means an EPUB can be
read across multiple platforms.
In other words,
because EPUB uses web technologies,
you can create a book
that's customizable,
adaptable, and open.
It gives you the ability to
create a single book for nearly
any type of book that can be
read on many different devices.
Now, this is a huge list of features.
And like I said,
we covered most of them last year.
So today,
we're going to focus on the new items
we've added since we last talked to you.
I'm going to give you
a foundation in EPUB 3,
and then Jonathan's going to introduce
you to iBook JavaScript Library that
will let you easily incorporate some
really great interaction into your book.
And then finally,
Alejandro is going to show you
a development tool that will
allow you to perfect your book
and streamline your workflow.
By the end of this session,
you are going to be ready to make some
of the best books in the iBookstore.
I actually saw that happen last year,
so that means you guys,
you've set a high bar for yourself,
and I'm thoroughly expecting
to see it again this year.
So, are you ready to make an EPUB?
Yeah?
Okay.
Great.
Welcome to EPUB 3 Bootcamp.
I'm going to get you up to
date on the EPUB 3 anatomy,
and then I'll show you how
to use some EPUB technology
to create pop-ups in iBooks.
As I mentioned,
EPUB is really just web technology.
HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
And then we're bundling it
together and zipping it up and
giving it an extension of .epub.
I actually think it's easiest
to think of a book as a website.
But then you need to ask, okay, well,
what's the difference
between a website and a book?
And there's a lot of different
answers out there for it,
but I'm going to give you
a technical explanation.
And to do that,
I'm going to show you an EPUB.
So here's our EPUB,
and I'm going to unzip it.
And inside, there are two folders,
the OEBPS and the MetaINF.
We're only going to worry
about the OEBPS folder today,
because that is the folder that contains
all of the content of your book.
So inside of it is all that web
technology I told you about.
Your XHTML,
that's the main content of your book.
Your text.
It also includes your styling,
so your CSS and your fonts.
And your media, so your images, audio,
video.
This is all the standard web content,
but in addition to that,
there's also two EPUB-specific files,
and this is what's making it a book.
There is the OPF file
and the NAV document.
Now,
the OPF file is a carryover from EPUB 2.
The NAV document is an entirely
new document in EPUB 3,
so we'll spend most of our time on that.
First, though, let's look at the OPF.
The OPF contains all of the
information about your book,
including your package version,
that's which version
of EPUB you're using.
It also includes the
metadata for your book,
a manifest which lists all
of the files in your book,
and a spine which defines the
linear reading order of your book.
So first of all,
because we're making EPUB 3 today,
we need to update our package version.
So this is the package element,
the version set to 2.0,
we have to make it a 3.0.
Are you ready?
3.0, okay, really hard, right?
All right, but that does set us up for
needing to make some other
adjustments and other changes,
starting with the metadata.
So in EPUB 2, you are required to provide
three metadata items,
the title, the language, and the ID.
But in EPUB 3, you're also required to
provide the date modified.
So to run through the metadata
element for this book,
The Hobbit, we have the titles,
The Hobbit.
We have the ID for the book,
which is usually the ISBN number,
the language the book is written in,
in this case, English, and our new item,
DC terms modified.
This is the date your
book was last modified,
and it's really important
that you include it so that
You have an idea of version control,
so that whether it's you with the book
with multiple versions or if you've
given someone else multiple versions,
we have a sense of which one
is the most up to date and then
therefore probably the most correct.
And The Hobbit's a really
good example of this.
The Hobbit was written in 1937,
and since then, it has undergone many
revisions and additions.
So it's really important as you're
moving into the digital world that
you include that date modified so
that I can tell and the iBooksor can
tell what the most recent version is.
So metadata,
much the same as it was in EPUB 2,
but be sure you include
your DC terms modified.
Next is the manifest.
Again, the manifest,
mostly unchanged since EPUB 2.
And this looks like a
lot of text up there,
but really all it is is a listing of
all the files that make up your book.
That's your XHTML, your CSS, your fonts,
all of that content we
were discussing earlier.
In EPUB 3, though,
we now have something called
the properties attribute.
The properties attribute
allows you to further identify
key files in your manifest.
And I have two really good
examples of that here.
One is for the navigation document.
The navigation document is
a vital file in your book,
and so you need to call
that out as being special.
So to do that,
you add the properties attribute
and give it a value of nav.
Another example is for the cover image.
In EPUB 2, the cover image was
defined in the metadata,
but in EPUB 3,
all you need to do is add the properties
attribute with the value of cover image
on the actual cover in the manifest.
So manifest largely unchanged in EPUB 3,
just be sure you use the properties
attribute where required.
And finally, the spine.
The spine is unchanged in EPUB 3,
but it is a very,
very important part of the OPF file,
so I'm going to cover it here.
It lists the linear
reading order of your book.
That's all of the content
documents of your book,
and it's defining the order and
literally binding it together,
much like the spine of a physical book.
And the markup for the
spine is essentially a list.
So now we have the spine
element and we have chapter 1,
chapter 2, chapter 3.
It's very simple but very important.
And that's the OPF file in EPUB 3.
So we've updated the version number,
we added modified date to the metadata,
we added the properties
attribute to the manifest,
and we provided a spine.
Now I know there's at least a
few EPUB veterans out there,
and you may have noticed that
I didn't mention the guide element.
The guide element is actually
deprecated in EPUB 2,
but it has a replacement in
EPUB 3's navigation document.
The navigation document
replaces EPUB 2's NCX file.
And if any of you have ever
written an NCX file by hand,
you can rejoice now.
You don't have to do it again.
Yes, I knew there would be a couple.
Okay.
And the navigation document provides
all of the information about your book,
or about how to navigate your book,
including the table of contents,
landmarks, and a page list.
And those are the three
we'll cover today.
All of these, the table, contents,
landmarks, and page lists,
are created using an HTML5 nav element.
The nav element allows you to
actually define an order for a list.
So here we have the nav element.
Inside of it is our ordered list,
and then we have individual list items.
Note that each list item has both
text and a link for that text.
Now because you're using this
nav structure for all three,
your table of contents, your landmarks,
and your page list,
you also need to provide a way
to differentiate between those.
And you do that using
the epub type attribute.
The EPUB type attribute is
a new attribute in EPUB 3,
and it provides additional
semantic meaning to any
element it's on in your book.
There's a whole variety of
pre-existing values for this,
but for today, when we're discussing
the navigation document,
we'll focus on table of contents,
landmarks, and page list.
And we add it directly
to the nav element.
So here's our nav element with
the EPUB type of TOC for table
of contents added in there.
So let's go ahead and make
a real table of contents.
This is a table of contents in iBooks.
So you have chapter one.
On page 3, nested under it is figure 1,
and back out again is chapter 2.
Now your job is to provide the
text for this table of contents and
to provide the structure for it.
iBooks' job is to provide
the page numbers for you.
So to create this structure,
you're going to use that nav element.
And you're going to give
it an EPUB type of TOC,
for table of contents.
And inside of that,
you have the ordered list
with your list items.
So the first list item is chapter 1,
and it has a link associated
with it for chapter1.xhtml,
so that when the reader touches
chapter 1 in the table of contents,
they'll be taken to the
chapter 1 content document.
Now, I didn't close out the
list item for this,
because instead,
I'm nesting under it a new
ordered list for figure 1.
And that figure 1 has a link that
points to chapter 1.xhtml with a
fragment identifier of figure 1.
And that's because our figure 1
exists within the chapter 1 document.
So this link will then go and reference
a figure 1 ID within that document.
So that is the basic structure.
So you have your table of contents,
it's HTML list with
the HTML5 nav element.
And you use this same nav
structure to create landmarks.
A landmarks replaces EPUB 2's guide,
and its job is to identify
key files within your book.
So it is essentially providing a
map to the structure of your book.
And the iBooksStore will reference
the landmarks when we're cutting
the sample for your book.
So as a reminder,
that sample is the free sample that
our customers download when they're
deciding whether or not to buy your book.
And that means you want that
sample to be really good,
right?
So to do that,
you need to provide a thorough landmarks.
Landmarks can also be used for
defining the start page of your book.
So this is the first page the reader
sees the first time they open your book.
If you want, that can be the cover page,
that can be chapter one, it's up to you.
And again,
landmarks uses the nav element.
So we have added the EPUB type
landmarks to our nav,
but now we're also using EPUB type
attributes in each of our list items.
This way, no matter what you've named
your XHTML document as,
you have a set value or a set tag for
what that content document's job is.
So for our first example,
we have coverpg.xhtml.
It has an EPUB type of cover,
so that's telling the
iBookstor this is my cover.
That means I could name this fish.xhtml.
It doesn't matter.
It will be the cover as far
as the iBookstor is concerned.
So that's landmarks,
very important for you to add,
and I suggest you just make
that as thorough as possible.
Next is the page list.
Page list allows you to define
custom page numbers for your book.
When do you want to define
custom page numbers?
Well, there's a few reasons.
One, in flowing books,
the number of perceived pages for your
book depends on a few different factors.
For one, the device size.
Another, the font size.
In this example,
we have the same book on both
the iPad and on the iPhone.
But on the iPad, you have 398 pages,
and on the iPhone, you have 1,900 pages.
So this can pose a particular problem
if you're trying to send someone to a
very specific location in your book,
because everyone's going to have
a different concept of the paging.
For instance, let's say you're in a
classroom and the teacher says,
"Class, turn to page 82 of White Fang."
Now all of the students who
are reading digital readers
are going to have a different
concept of what that page 82 is.
But they're going to be fine
if you provide a page list.
Because your page list is
going to set a standard paging,
sets demarcations,
and it will also provide custom
page numbers if you like.
So the best way to show this is to look
at the table of contents in iBooks.
So this is the table of
contents we just made.
Chapter 1 is on page 3,
figure 1 is on page 6,
and chapter 2 is on page 9.
When you apply the page list to this,
you can make these page numbers
whatever you need them to be.
Now this example is a little zany,
but it gives you an
idea of what you can do.
Chapter 1 is page 1, figure 1 is intro,
chapter 2 is Roman numeral 4.
So it's up to you.
Now, in fixed layout books,
the pagination is different.
People experience the
exact same number of pages,
no matter what their device,
no matter what their orientation,
but there still may be a time when you
want to define custom page numbers.
And an example of this is,
let's say you have an
existing print book,
and you want the digital book,
its page numbering to match
up with the print book.
To do that,
you would provide a page list.
So now, you know, normally in iBooks,
the cover page by default
would be page one,
but your print book,
it's not going to have
the cover page number one.
So by adding a page list to this,
I now can have my last page
be Roman numeral seven.
And this means that the reader can
scrub that thumbnail nav along the
bottom and see the pages that they
want and navigate to it that way.
Creating a page list for both
flowing and fixed layout books,
again, we're using that nav element.
We're setting an EPUB type of page list,
and now all of the text that's
in our list items defines the
text for our page numbers.
So in this case,
we have intro for the first item,
we have the next page unnumbered,
and then we start a numbering of 1, 2,
and 3.
Now, your linking structure is going
to change a little bit between a
flowing book and a fixed layout book.
And that's because in
a fixed layout book,
you have one content document per page.
So when you're linking to that,
you're just going to be
linking to page 1x HTML,
page 2x HTML, and so on.
But in a flowing book,
you have one XHTML document per chapter,
and you're going to have many
pages within that chapter.
So you need to provide markers within it,
and really IDs within that to
mark the start of each page.
And it looks like this.
So here's my HTML document.
I have a paragraph in there,
and I've added the ID of P1 for page 1.
And that references, then,
the chapter 1 XHTML with
a fragment ID of P1.
So that is PageList.
It's easy to create,
and it can be very useful.
And that wraps up the
navigation document EPUB 3.
I showed you how to create
a table of contents,
landmarks, and page lists.
All of them use the HTML5 nav element
and the EPUB 3 EPUB type attribute.
But we're not done
with the EPUB type yet.
It has a few more tricks up its sleeve.
If you remember way back when
I was first explaining EPUB type,
EPUB type can be added to
any element in your book,
not just in the navigation document.
And it will add additional meaning
to any of the elements you add it on.
And one really cool way of using
EPUB type is to create pop-ups in iBooks.
Popups and iBooks work on the iPad,
the iPhone, and the iPod Touch,
and they're really easy to make.
It looks like this.
So I have in there some
superscripts for footnotes.
When the reader touches that superscript,
there's a link on it,
and it triggers the popup.
So on the iPhone,
we're overlaying the popup full screen,
and on the iPad,
we're insetting the popup.
And to create these,
you don't need to know
any scripting at all.
You just need to use two
EPUB type attributes.
Here's the markup.
So now I have my superscript 1,
and that number 1 has an anchor element.
In that anchor elements,
there's two very important attributes.
We have our href for our
link that's pointing to the
location of our pop-up text,
and we have the epub type
attribute noteref because we're
referencing a note that's elsewhere.
And that note is in the aside element.
So this aside element contains the
text that will appear in the pop-up,
and that aside element also
has two important attributes.
It has the ID so that our
link can reference it,
and it has the EPUB type of footnote
because this is the note for our book.
That's all you need.
That concludes the EPUB 3 Boot Camp.
I showed you the building blocks of EPUB.
It's really just web technology.
We also covered the structure in EPUB,
including the OPF and the nav.
And I showed you how you can
start to incorporate a bit more
interactivity into your books by
using pop-ups using EPUB type.
But don't stop there.
Next,
Jonathan is going to show you how you
can use the iBook JavaScript library
to easily incorporate some really
impressive interactions into your books.
Jonathan?
Thanks, Casey.
How's everybody today?
Great.
So what is interactivity?
Well, let's travel back in time.
When I was younger, I loved storybooks.
I mean, I really liked them.
Now,
They were great.
The stories were great,
but there was always something missing.
And then one day I was
introduced to something,
and it blew my mind.
With just a little bit of interactivity,
I was re-engaged.
So that's cool.
But what does that have to do with EPUB?
I think it's easier for me to show you
something than it is for me to tell you.
So let's take a quick break
and let's watch a little video.
Now,
it's important to note that this video,
it's a trailer, but everything you see
can be done in an EPUB.
Hey Ringo,
I've just had the strangest dream.
♪ ♪ Where'd you start this thing?
Perhaps this is it.
Groovy.
So what did we just see
aside from everything?
So there was user interaction
that fired animations,
played audio, played video,
allowed people to drag things
and move things and interact.
This is interactivity.
It's fusing user
interaction with feedback.
How do we do this?
How did all of this happen?
Behind the scenes, it was JavaScript.
Since iBooks 1.5, we've supported this,
and now it's officially
supported in EPUB 3.
Now that we have JavaScript,
what do we do with this?
Well,
there's components of interactivity.
We take user interaction,
and then we take audio, video,
CSS animations,
and we put it together so the users
have a more engaging experience.
I talk about CSS.
Let's talk and show a
little bit about that.
So on screen, I have Clarisse,
our dog cow, and I have a CSS animation.
CSS animations fire by themselves
without any user interaction.
They look like this.
But let's say we want something
to happen with user interaction.
So when the user taps on Clarisse,
she rotates.
We do this with JavaScript.
And animations are the
core of interactivity.
We control everything with JavaScript,
and we can link animations
together to create more complex
and engaging interactions.
Using JavaScript,
we add class names or modify them,
and then we respond to these with CSS.
So I showed you the user tapping on
Claris and the rotation happening.
So let me walk you through what
actually happens in the background,
because I'm sure you're curious.
So just follow along.
So you're going to create an element.
You're going to have to
add a class name to it.
And then you add an event
listener with JavaScript.
With JavaScript,
you're going to have to listen for touch.
Touch is going to have a touch start,
a touch move, and a touch end.
Not all touch is the same.
Once you find that correct touch event,
you've got to make sure
it's the right one.
So then you need to check
for a tap threshold.
All that's fun.
It's OK.
So now we're going to check
the class on the element.
Is it OK if it's OK?
We'll toggle it.
If it's not, we'll toggle it again.
So that was fun.
But I don't think you came here
today so I could tell your life
is going to be more difficult.
So you could do all of this.
Or you could do this.
iBook.js is
JavaScript interactivity simplified.
And what is it other than awesome?
So it's Apple's framework.
It's our library.
It's available now.
It's on iTunes Connect.
It's for all of you.
You can download it.
It simplifies a lot of common tasks
that publishers have requested,
takes all this crazy stuff,
and bundles it into a
nice little package.
It's unobfuscated,
so you can look what we're
doing under the hood.
You can make sure you're
following our best practices.
And it doesn't matter
if you're a beginner.
It doesn't matter if you're a veteran.
It's optional.
Use it as a base.
Use it standalone.
Use it as a foundation.
So now that I've already
sold you on this,
let me show you what it actually does.
So the first thing you might want is an
animation to fire when the DOM loads.
So I have Claris off screen right now.
Let's say the DOM is loaded.
iBook.js will append build
in to the body class.
That's great,
but maybe you want to delay something.
You don't want your animation
to fire immediately.
We can use a deferred
event to accomplish this.
With a deferred event,
we simply add iBooks
deferred event to an element.
And by default, one second later,
we'll append an active class,
and an animation will fire.
You can adjust this delay with
data iBooks deferred event
delay as an HTML attribute.
So those are event timing things.
Let's talk about touch.
Your book lives inside of touch.
So it makes sense to use it, right?
Simple toggling of an element.
This is what I showed
you with all that code.
Instead of doing that,
just append iBooks Togglable,
and we'll add an active class
when the user taps on it.
So we can toggle something.
Let's drag something.
Using iBooks Dragable,
we can leverage touch so all elements
can be dragged around on the device.
It was really easy,
but it was a lot of work.
So we've toggled things,
and what did we do?
We toggled things and
we've dragged things.
Now we're going to duplicate
and create something.
So if we look at the iPad,
we have some beautiful hills.
We can append an iBooks stampable
class to the parent container.
And on touch, we'll add an empty div
with the class stamp.
Why would you want to do this?
Well, as we touch the hills,
let's add some dog cows.
Just like that.
Now,
you don't want everything to be tappable,
so we need to define
some type of hit area.
We do this using SVG.
HTML doesn't have a hill element,
so we use SVG.
It's a format for 2D vector graphics,
and it's especially useful for
irregular shapes like the hill.
Now, in yellow is our hit area.
It was just defined in SVG.
So any touch outside of that hit area,
nothing's going to happen.
But if we touch inside of this hit area,
magic.
This is touch.
Let's talk about audio.
Using iBooks Media Audio and setting a
source with Data iBooks Audio Source,
we can play audio with elements.
You might be wondering, well,
there's an audio tag in HTML.
Why would I use this?
Well, you can still use the audio tag,
but there's a few things
you're going to have to do.
You're going to have
to create an element.
You're going to have to add
JavaScript to listen for that.
You're going to have to do some action.
When the user taps on it,
and then you're going to
have to play audio and then
manage that playback later.
Or you could just do this.
Now, Claris is on screen.
and Claris Plays Audio.
So that's pretty cool.
Now, not everybody wants audio to resume
from where it was last paused.
And by default, when you play audio,
it will pause.
So you can configure this
playback with Data Audio,
iBooks, Reset On Play.
And by doing this,
the play head will reset every
time the user taps on the element.
I told you this is easy,
and I said you can add
interactivity really easily.
Let's see how easy it is.
There's three things we're going to do.
The first thing, we're going to include
it like any script tag,
any library in the head of your document.
Two,
Find the behavior you want
and add it to the class.
And then three, optionally,
configure that behavior.
Now, it really is that easy.
So to summarize really quickly,
all of this is available
on iTunes Connect.
I showed you how to pair
audio to DOM load events,
to deferred events.
I showed you the leverage touch,
tappables, stampables, draggables,
and how to control audio simply.
So now what?
Maybe this is just the beginning.
With advanced JavaScript,
you can do almost anything.
First thing I would suggest,
look in iBooks.
Look in iBook.js, look at what we do,
customize some things,
build some extra things out.
Next,
as you're building more interactivity,
you're probably going to run into
an issue with the default UI.
Because your book lives
inside of a touch environment,
we leverage touch for UI.
So if I were to tap on Sonnet,
the menu bar is going to
pop down from the top.
Could be a dialog box if it's text.
Now, this is great for
UI because it's consistent.
But when you're building
interactive books,
you may not want that.
It may detract from what
you're trying to accomplish.
JavaScript provides a default binding,
prevent default,
which will prevent this behavior.
So if we were to reset
this and tap again,
it's going to pop up.
Nothing's going to happen
except what you tell it to do.
So that's great.
What else can I do?
Because everything in
iBooks renders with WebKit,
you can leverage WebKit too.
So almost anything you
do with mobile WebKit,
you can do on the phone or in this iBook.
Now, you can access hardware sensors.
You don't need an iOS app to do that.
Accelerometers, gyroscopes,
magnetometers,
why would you want to do that?
Maybe you've written a
book on home improvement,
and you're showing people how
to hang posters or pictures.
You can tell them how
to do that with content,
and then you can include some widgets
So you can actually hang your
paintings and keep them level
all without leaving your book.
Use location services for
real time GPS location,
and then compare it to some
predefined data so you can show
people how far things are from them.
Move beyond just taps and
drags and include gestures.
And finally,
Test, test, test.
Because as you build more
complex interactions,
things are going to break.
And your book is only going to be
as good as the time you put into it.
So test it.
If your animations are slow,
accelerate them.
Optimize your JavaScript,
and make sure the book
goes from good to great.
So next,
we'll have Alejandro talk you through
some of the things I've showed you,
and he'll tell you how
to test your books.
Thanks.
Thanks, Jon.
Now picture this.
You have an idea for a book, a deep,
engaging book for your users.
You have an idea for
a book about a flower,
red flower.
spinning Red Flower.
Now you know exactly how to do this.
You're going to make
it spin using iBook.js.
Jon taught you that.
And you're going to
distribute it using EPUB 3,
just like Casey taught you.
What they haven't talked to you about,
and what I will talk to you about,
is how to test it.
How to go from writing your code on
your computer using HTML5 and then
testing it on your device where your
users are actually going to use it.
With this in mind, let's test your book.
There are six easy steps
you have to follow.
Step 1, edit and save your document.
Step 2, export it as an EPUB.
Step 3, sync it to your device.
4, open it in iBooks.
5, turn to the relevant chapter.
And 6, test your book.
It's that simple.
It's really easy.
You know how to do it.
It's a piece of cake.
Now, as you get to understand your
book better and you use it,
you realize that it's not very
obvious that it's interactive.
So you decide to put a background
behind it so that it's obvious to
the users that it's like a button.
And of course, it still spins.
It's the spinning red flower, after all.
Now, something has changed.
Now the book is in iBooks,
so you have to deal with caching.
What this is, is that iBooks is really,
really smart about the work
it does and it doesn't do.
So if it thinks that your
book is already in the device,
it's not going to sync it again.
That's to make sync faster.
So, to get around it,
you're going to modify the
modification date in the OPF,
just like Casey pointed out.
With this in mind,
let's go through the steps again.
You know how to do it.
It's really easy, okay?
Seven steps this time.
One, edit and save your document.
Two, bump the modification date.
Three, export it as an EPUB,
sync it to your device, open an iBooks,
turn to the relevant chapter,
and test your book.
It's really that easy.
You know how to do it.
It's a piece of cake.
Okay?
Now, you have an epiphany as
you're doing all this work.
It's no longer the spinning red flower.
It's the spinning red flowers.
And I have great news for you.
The steps to test it are
exactly the same as before.
Let's go ahead and test your book.
Okay?
Step one, edit and save your document.
Does it feel like I'm repeating myself?
Well, that's because I am.
And if you're going through this process,
then you're repeating yourself as well.
You don't care about these things.
They have nothing to do with
the story you're trying to tell.
All you really care about is making
an edit and testing your content.
Well, I'm very pleased to tell you
That's why I'm here today,
to talk to you about a tool that
will take this overwhelming process,
turn it into this.
BookProver.
BookProver is an OS X app
that you can download from
iTunes Connect for free today.
It will help you be more productive by
laying on top of a couple of cornerstones
that I will walk you through.
The first one is instantaneous feedback.
When you're building your content,
you're going to want to change positions,
colors, velocities,
all these variables until
your book feels balanced.
And for that, you need fast,
strong support from your tools.
And BookProofer provides that
with instantaneous feedback.
Automatic Sync.
This is all about focus.
You don't want to leave your IDE.
If you're focusing on your code,
you should be able to change it
and save it and see the results
on your device immediately without
having to leave your tool of choice.
BookProofer is also tool independent.
This means that you can
stay as productive as you
have been all these years.
You can use your image editor of choice.
You can use your HTML editor of choice.
What BookProofer does is that it creates
a link between the app and the files,
and as you save them,
it will update automatically.
Also, it supports multiple
devices simultaneously.
So as you make changes and you can
see them on your high resolution
iPad and on your iPhone or your
iPad touch all at the same time,
this will ensure that you provide a
premium experience for all of your
users and all of their devices.
Last, BookProofer is extremely,
extremely,
extremely well integrated with iBooks.
It will show things like a ribbon on
your iBooks shelf to let you know which
books you're working on currently.
You don't have to do things like
turning to the relevant chapter.
It knows what chapter you're on.
It will remember these things.
Well,
I'm sure you all want to see it working,
so let me go ahead and show you.
[Transcript missing]
I have an EPUB here,
and I have a flower that
will become relevant later.
If we go into the EPUB folder,
you'll see familiar files
like the Meta-INF and the
OEBPF that Casey told you about.
If we go in here,
we find my XHTML documents,
we find iBook.js,
and a couple of other things.
Now that we have that,
let me go ahead and open BookProofer,
walk you through the interface.
Here we have the work area.
This is where you drag your EPUB.
And it will create a link
between the EPUB and Bookproofer.
Down here is the device list.
As you add more devices,
they will appear on the list.
And you can check which
ones you want to be syncing,
which one you want syncing enabled for.
Let me go ahead and drag this folder.
I don't even have to
compress it into a zip file.
And now these guys are
just linked together.
And if I check the iPad,
see how it syncs over.
I have to have iBooks open, of course.
So as I check the iPad,
it will sync it over to the device.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So you can see there,
you see the proof in ribbon to show
you that I'm working on this book.
When I open it, I see my pretty flowers.
I have my cover right here.
And as I come here,
I realize I'm missing one of the flowers.
Well, this is where that
other flower comes from,
where it becomes important.
I'm just going to drag and
drop it into my images folder,
and I'm going to leave it
there so that you see how it
updates the book immediately.
I'm just going to drop it,
not touch anything,
not say sync or anything like that,
and it will just update.
It really is that easy.
That's all there is to BookProofer.
With that in mind,
let's go ahead and do some
interaction like Jon taught you about.
Let me walk you through that.
So I'm going to get my white
flower and my red flower,
which are the ones on screen,
and I'm going to just drop them
on my text editor of choice,
which in this case is VI.
You all know I'm really
good at following steps,
so I'm going to follow the steps that
Jon taught us about a few minutes ago.
First, I'm going to add the
script tag on my head.
So it's just script,
and the source is iBook.js.
Next, I'm going to add the
iBooksTalkable class.
So, that will just add an active class to
my image element when we tap the flower.
We can access that active tag on CSS.
So, I'm going to add some
CSS here to do that.
So, I'm doing it inline so it's
easier for all of you to see,
but this behaves just
like a linked style sheet.
So, it's a CSS style.
It will look for my flower right here.
You see it's a flower class.
And when it's active,
it's going to execute
the code that's below.
So when it's active,
it's going to apply a transform that
will rotate my flower by 360 degrees.
Now, I don't want to bore
you talking too much,
so let me just save it.
Switch to my device,
and without doing anything else,
my flower now spins.
We have a spinning red flower.
There's something else I want
to call your attention on.
Notice that when I tap it,
the toolbar doesn't come down.
But when I tap this flower, it does.
That's the prevent defaults that
John was talking about a few minutes ago.
And you don't want things to
distract your users when they
are tapping things around.
So that's what it did.
Now, let me just go ahead and
show you something else.
Let's make the white flower interactive.
And you will notice how
incredibly easy it is.
Only two steps.
I'll go ahead and add my script tag,
same as before.
It just points to iBook.js.
It's on the head of the document.
And then I'm going to
make it iBooks draggable.
Okay?
That's it.
I save it.
Switch to my device.
And this is incredible.
Look at this.
My flower just moves around.
I can rotate, I can move,
I can do both at the same time.
Now, you have just seen how easy it is to
make great interactive books using EPUB,
iBook.js,
and then BookProofer to test it.
Casey will come up on stage to
tell you where you can learn more.
Thank you.
Thanks Alejandro.
You know what Alejandro showed you today?
It only scratches the surface of
what's possible in iBooks today.
JavaScript has opened the doors
for so many creative opportunities,
and it will allow you to create a book
that is both inspiring and engaging.
EPUB combines with HTML and
CSS to give you the possibility
of creating any type of book.
You could create a basic flowing novel or
A high-design picture book with
interactivity and embedded audio.
The choice is yours.
Now, my colleagues and I today
talked a lot about the
technology used to create books.
But one of the most important takeaways
is any of you can create a book.
Any one of you can publish in iBooks.
So iBooks this year gives you,
iBooks author,
and EPUB 3 in the hopes that
we can help you take your story
from imagination to reality.
And to help you out, if you need any more
information along your way,
you can contact your Safari evangelist,
Vicki Murley.
Also, I suggest you check out
the Apple Developer Forms.
We have a new iBooks community there,
and it's a great place to both
post your questions and help other
people out with their questions.
Also, if you haven't already
signed up for iTunes Connect,
do so.
Once you sign up to sell
your books on iTunes Connect,
you will have access to the
iBooks Store Asset Guide.
That guide will help you create
books and will explain to you not
only how to construct your books,
but how to deliver to the store.
Also,
once you've signed up to sell your books,
you have access to our two example EPUBs.
We give you both a flowing
EPUB and a fixed layout EPUB.
And the fixed layout EPUB contains
the iBook JavaScript library
that John showed you today.
Also,
if you have any more questions on EPUB 3,
visit idpf.org.
The IDPF is the standards
committee for EPUB 3.
We had a number of
sessions for you this week.
Publishing at the iBooks
Store already happened,
so if you missed it,
definitely check it out when we
posted the videos after WWDC.
Also, Building Books with iBooks
Author was this Tuesday.
I think that they're going to do
a rerun for that later this week.
And then this afternoon,
definitely check out the HTML, CSS,
and DOM for authors.
Ted has some really good tips
and tricks in there for you.
And finally, improving accessibility
in books is also tomorrow.
iBooks is the most
accessible reading system,
so it's really important you
make your books accessible.
So please attend that.
Thank you for coming to WWDC.
Enjoy the rest of your time.